well howdy there internet people it's
beau again so tonight we're gonna do
things in Reverse I normally talk about
a historical event and then bring it
into modern context we're gonna do that
backwards because it's weird tonight I
was hanging out with everybody there was
either a vet or an ex contractor for
whatever reason somebody had the
President's speech to the troops in
Afghanistan playing on their phone it's
a normal Trump speech I'm the greatest
man in the world type of thing until
about 8 minutes in and then everybody
stopped and looked at the phone first he
said well we kept the oil in Syria no we
didn't that's not true but I'm not here
to fact-check the president about that
he goes on to say during the campaign I
kept saying that keep the oil keep the
oil but they didn't have to listen to me
I was a civilian then you're a civilian
now the president is a civilian now the
title of commander-in-chief exists
solely because he's a civilian it's not
a rank that's not something you can get
promoted into it exists because the US
has a centuries-old concept of civilian
control of the military and it's really
important and it's a line that's getting
blurred more and more the reason it
exists is twofold the first being that
in theory Congress and the president
exercise the will of the people they
have to get together work together and
decide to deploy the military get a
declaration of war an authorization for
military force something like that and
that that should reflect the will of the
people then the president has strategic
control what targets what main targets
to hit how much collateral damage were
willing to accept what the mission
parameters are stuff like that the
reason the president has that power is
because in theory
they should be working towards peace
that's why it exists the other reason is
to stop the u.s. from devolving into
some two-bit military dictatorship under
the leadership of Generalissimo Trump
Trump is a civilian he's not a general
period full stop no discussion on this
he is a civilian he is not part of the
military he has control but is separate
from it it's a really important concept
it's so important that if you look back
at American history for the first almost
two hundred years of this country's
existence it was taboo for the president
to salute the troops because he's a
civilian you look back at Eisenhower
Kennedy roosevelt these guys did not
salute the troops with any regularity
whatsoever you'll find some instances of
them doing it when it's a Medal of Honor
recipient or something something else
extraordinary like that the only person
that did it with any regularity
whatsoever was grant when he was
drinking and he drank a lot
it wasn't until Reagan that that became
a thing and it also had to do with
alcohol Reagan and the Marine Corps
commandant were having drinks Reagan was
complaining that you know the Marines
they had to hold that salute the whole
time he didn't understand why he
couldn't just salute them and let him
drop their hand and the Commandant has
had a couple at him it's like you're the
president do what you want I mean that's
kind of what he said he was like I don't
think anybody say anything and that's
where the tradition started and that in
and of itself it's kind of harmless but
it's the beginning of this line being
blurred and historically when that line
gets blurred
in a country that had civilian control
of the leadership of the military when
the head of state starts to be seen as
the general the next thing that happens
is war crimes it always goes bad
incidentally the real reason everybody
looked at the phone is because keeping
Syria's oil that's a war crime
it's called pillaging not just for
pirates it's illegal under the Geneva
Conventions and the u.s. war crimes act
it that's not happening if it is the
Democrats can stop looking for their
high crimes and misdemeanors they found
it I would really hope that the Pentagon
would have the integrity to tell the
president that is not happening any
military commander that participated in
that would be open to prosecution that
awell belongs to Syria at least the
pretense is that we do not have a
colonial military we do not conquer
other nations and take their natural
resources it would be a war crime as
outlined by international law US law
treaties backed up by the force of the
US Constitution this is why the
commander-in-chief's real control over
the military has traditionally been
limited to strategic decisions because
they shouldn't get involved into the day
and the day to day because they don't
know enough about it anyway it's just a
thought y'all have a good night